---
layout: api
title: AdsNative Enterprise API Documentation
date: 2015-08-06
author: Dhawal Mujumdar
categories: 
  - docs
img: ""
thumb: ""
excerpt: AdsNative Technical Documentation
published: true
---

# **AdsNative Enterprise API Documentation**

## **AD REQUEST API**

Using ad request API you can request ad from AdsNative servers.

### **API Endpoint**

```curl
https://api.adsnative.com/v1/ad.json
```
Ad request should be made via SSL (https endpoint) and we strongly recommend to use keep-alive for the requests.

### **Request Parameters (GET)**


Parameter | Required | Type | Description
---|---|---|---
network_key | Yes | string | Network specific global key
url | Yes | string | Current page url
widget_id|Yes|string|A unique identifier for a specific ad unit within a particular URL/domain. In case of Disqus it will be Forum Id.
cat|Yes|array of strings|IAB Category codes for current forum/site. For example “IAB1” for “Arts & Entertainment”.
ad_type|No|array of strings|Type of the ads supported by current placement request. The two possible values that can be passed are ‘video’, ‘story’, or both
num_ads|No|int|Default value is 1. Num of ads requested.
ua|Yes|string|User agent of the of the client the ad is requested for. 
ip|Yes|string|IP address of the client the ad is requested for
ancm|Yes|string|A unique user identifier fetched from cookie sync mechanism
floor|No|Float|Placement floor price 

### **Response Parameters**
Parameter | Description
---|---
status |	The status of the ad response. Returns ‘OK’ when a valid ad is present.
count |	Number of native ads returned.
type |	content type of the native ad. It’s either ‘story’ or ‘video’.
title |	title of the native ad.
summary |	summary part of the native ad.
imageSrc |	URL of the image attached with native ad.
embedUrl |	Returns the IFRAME embed code of a video player, in case the ‘type’ of the ad is ‘video’. This embed code video works on all platforms. For native, platforms it need to be wrapped in a Web View.
url |	click URL for the whole native ad.
target |	after click action for the native ad. If it’s ‘_blank’, it should be opened in new window/view. If it’s ‘_parent’ or empty, it should be opened in the same window/view.
backgroundColor |	Background color value set in Adsnative Dashboard for the ad unit. This allows you to control the background color of the ad unit from AdsNative Dashboard. You can choose to ignore this value
brandImageUrl |	URL of the brand image/logo.
promotedBy |	Name of the brand promoting the content.
promotedByTag |	Prefix for the brand name configured in AdsNative Dashboard for the current ad unit. For e.g. ‘Promoted by’ or ‘Sponsored by’.
promotedByUrl |	click URL that needs to be called in case user clicks on either brand name or brand image.
trackingTags |	tags for tracking impression and third-party tracking. These are typically image or script tags that can droppped anywhere in the web page or in case of native platforms, within a 1x1 Web View. If you are looking for an alternative method for your platform, please contact AdsNative team for more options.

#### **Example Response**
```JSON
{
  "ad": {
      "backgroundColor": "#fefff2",
      "brandImageUrl": "http://dev-www.adsnative.com/media/brand_images/1/82cc86ad-9070-4b90-9006-1fbca6697694.jpg",
      "embedUrl": "http://api.adsnative.com/v1/creative.html?crid=xyz&sid=sid123",
      "imageSrc": "http://files-www2.adsnative.com/media/1/xyz.jpg",
      "promotedBy": "Tesla",
      "promotedByTag": "Promoted by",
      "promotedByUrl": "http://api.adsnative.com/v1/ad.click?u=http%3A%2F%2Fxyz.com%2F&sid=sid123",
      "summary": "Tesla teased electric motorheads earlier this week by announcing an event that would show off its curious battery swapping system...",
      "target": "_parent",
      "title": "Tesla Shows Off A 90-Second Battery Swap System, Wants It At Supercharging Stations By Year's End",
      "trackingTags": "",
      "type": "story",
      "url": "http://api.adsnative.com/v1/ad.click?u=http%3A%2F%2Fxyz.com%2F&sid=sid123"
  },
  "cid": "cid123",
  "count": 1,
  "crid": "crid123",
  "sid": "sid123",
  "status": "OK",
  "uuid": "uuid123",
  "zid": "ping"
}
```

---

#### **Notes:**

- A unique placement is created at our end for each unique domain (extracted from url) and widget_id combination.

- We update the new values passed through in an hour or so in our database, but we use the updated value for each ad request on real-time basis but it that it’s not write back to database or reflected in our dashboard until after approximately an hour. 

- The array values should be passed as standard URL parameters with multiple key, value pairs. For example, &cat=IAB1&cat=IAB2&cat=IAB3

## **CAMPAIGN REPORTING API**

Using campaign reporting API you can get campaign reports per campaign object basis

### **API Endpoint**

```curl
https://api.adsnative.com/v1/reports/campaigns
```

### Get Parameters

Parameter | Required | Type | Description
---|---|---|---
id|Yes|string|ID of Campaign object. ('all' for aggregated stats) 
start_date|Yes|string|Date in mm/dd/yyyy format
end_date|Yes|string|Date in mm/dd/yyyy format
granularity|Yes|string|'days' (days) or 'months'

---

